

	What is Software:
	
		
	Software is a set of instructions, data or programs used to operate computers and execute specific tasks. It is the opposite of hardware, which describes the
	physical aspects of a computer. Software is a generic term used to refer to applications, scripts and programs that run on a device. It can be thought of as 
	the variable part of a computer, while hardware is the invariable part.

	The two main categories of software are application software and system software. An application is software that fulfills a specific need or performs tasks.
	System software is designed to run a computer's hardware and provides a platform for applications to run on top of.
	Other types of software include programming software, which provides the programming tools software developers need; middleware, which sits between system 
	software and applications; and driver software, which operates computer devices and peripherals.





					-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





	What are the types of Applications:


	Application software can broadly be categorized into the following types. The category you opt for depends on your work-related needs.

	 - Web browsers
	 - Presentation software
	 - Spreadsheet software
	 - Graphic software
	 - Word processors
	 - Database software
	 - Multimedia software
	 - Education software
	 - Information software
	 - Content access software

	1)Web browsers-
	  These types of application software assist the users in accessing websites and conducting research. They help users retrieve information and explore the 
	  World Wide Web. Prevalent web browsers are Internet Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, MS Edge, Safari, etc. These browsers allow users to access search engines 
	  like Google, Bing, Yahoo, etc., to conduct research and surf the web.

	
	2) Presentation software-
	   This application software is built for personal and professional use. It is designed to assist the users in creating presentations with information and 
	   ideas. These software applications used by businesses gives the ease of making a presentation at the push of a button. Some of the key elements of 
	   presentation software are:

           i) Text editor: Presentation software contains the option of a text editor, where one can put their text and style it.
	  ii) Multimedia files: Presentation software contains the facility of adding and animating graphics, texts, multimedia, and videos.
	 iii) Slideshows: Presentation software help in conducting a slideshow for the presentation also.
	  iv) A few famous examples of this are Microsoft’s PowerPoint, Google Slides, and Apple’s Keynote. These presentation applications are essential to creating 
	      an engaging and informative experience.


	3) Spreadsheet software-
	   Representation of data in tabular form is possible through spreadsheet software. They allow easy calculations through formulas and functions.
	   Spreadsheet software that helps analyze, store, and organize data. They assist in effortlessly conducting complex calculations and managing data. All the 
	   data is neatly arranged in rows and columns. Users can use spreadsheet software to perform mathematical calculations. The most used application software
	   in this field is Microsoft Excel, Google Sheets, and Apple Numbers.

	4) Graphic software-
	   Graphics software allows easy editing of visual data. It makes room for picture editing and illustration. Graphics software assists users in creating
	   illustrations and pictures through software. Examples of application software include Adobe Photoshop and PaintShop pro.	


	5) Word processors-
 	   Word processor software allows formulation, beautification, and manipulation of text. They allow a wide variety of features to make room for effective 
 	   text consolidation and editing. This software helps the user input, edit, format, and give text output. Moreover, these types of software help create 
	   an exquisite visual experience by providing access to a thesaurus, synonyms, etc. Apart from that, the software includes font styles, colors, size, etc.

		Examples of application software are Appleworks, Wordpad, Notepad, Google Docs, Microsoft Word Docs, etc


	6) Database software-
	   Known popularly as database management software, this software helps with effective data management. This software allows easy organization of data and 
	   effortless access to it. DBMS or Database Management System is an application built for managing, extracting, storing, and searching for information 
   	   within a single database. While searching DBMS, this software accesses data through modification. A few examples of DBMS are MS Access, Oracle, and MySQL.

	7) Multimedia software-
	   Such software allows easy creation of audio, video, or pictorial files. They deal with all basic multimedia creation and sharing. They come with a wide 
	   variety of tools to facilitate the same. This software is specially built to record, create and edit audio and video files. It is a significant part of 
   	   the entertainment, telecommunications, and media industry.
           Multimedia software helps in enhancing the visual and auditory experience of any multimedia. Users can combine audio, texts, images, and animations in
	   multimedia software. 


	8) Education software-
	   Any software that enhances the learning experience is called education software. This kind of software is used in classroom setups where teachers impart 
	   knowledge to students. For example, education software makes it easier to conduct lectures with visual and auditory experiences to make learning fun and 
	   easy. Standards of education software include ProProfs, Schoology, Google Classroom, TalentLMS, Litmos, etc.
           Academic or educational software is designed to take care of learning and tutorials. Functional across various academic domains, they allow easy and
	   immersive education.




					-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




	What is programming-

	Programming is the process of creating a set of instructions that tell a computer how to perform a task. Programming can be done using a variety of computer
	programming languages, such as JavaScript, Python, and C++




					-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




	What is Python -

	Python is an interpreted, object-oriented, high-level programming language with dynamic semantics. Its high-level built in data structures, combined with 
        dynamic typing and dynamic binding, make it very attractive for Rapid Application Development. Python supports modules and packages, which encourages 
	program modularity and code reuse. 
	The Python interpreter and the extensive standard library are available in source or binary form without charge for all major platforms, and can be freely 
        distributed.


	Features of Python

	i) Clean syntax plus high-level data types
       ii) Leads to fast coding (First language in many universities abroad!)		
      iii) Uses white-space to delimit blocks
       iv) Humans generally do, so why not the language?
        v) Try it, you will end up liking it
       vi) Variables do not need declaration
      vii)Although not a type-less language



	   





	



	